<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="best_practices_of_cooperation">
    <title>Best cooperation practices</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <conbody>
        <p>Once you have set up the TMS in your company, you need to inform your vendors that you
            will soon use it for all the translation projects.</p>
        <p>However, before you start, you should agree on certain aspects because work with TMS may
            be different than the standard terms of cooperation: In particular, you should clarify
            the following issues:</p>
        <p><b>Terms of cooperation</b></p>
        <p>
            <ul id="ul_tz2_qxw_gtb">
                <li>Decide what kind of agreements you should sign with your vendors depending on
                    your business needs (compliance) – Cooperation Agreement, NDA, DPA, annexes
                    (e.g. complaints procedure, LQA process, rate cards), etc.</li>
                <li>Discuss the invoicing terms with your vendor – if you should be invoiced in
                    advance or after translation, monthly or after each project, based on PO from
                    TMS or PO from your vendor.</li>
                <li>Agree with your vendor how to deal with confidential texts (e.g. work outside
                    TMS).</li>
                <li>Inform your vendor that not all projects may be processed in TMS (e.g. certified
                    translations, patents, etc.) and agree on a suitable process and pricing for
                    them.</li>
                <li>Agree with your vendor how to proceed with non-editable graphics (e.g. export
                    texts to open format files, additional price, etc.).</li>
                <li>Prepare a checklist for your vendors, outlining aspects not covered by the
                    Cooperation Agreement to be used with your projects in TMS.</li>
                <li>Make sure the LSP informs its linguists of all relevant aspects of cooperation
                    with you and ensures all the PMs are also updated.</li>
            </ul>
        </p>
        <p><b>Communication</b></p>
        <p>
            <ul id="ul_kc1_sxw_gtb">
                <li>Decide upon the main communication channel with your vendor for your translation
                    projects (email, TMS notifications, vendor's client portal, etc.)</li>
                <li>Agree on communication process during the project e.g. when translators have
                    questions – how project participants (linguists, PMs, client) should proceed to
                    keep the deadline.</li>
                <li>Remember that your vendors may work in different time zones and countries so
                    when setting deadlines make sure you specify it and take account of holidays
                    different than yours.</li>
                <li>Discuss with your vendor what to do in case of technical problems with the TMS
                    (if you should be the contact eperson or they can contact support
                    directly).</li>
                <li>Establish the way of how you should be informed that the vendor has finished the
                    project and how files should be transferred to you (via TMS, by email, via data
                    transfer system, etc.).</li>
            </ul>
        </p>
        <p><b>Translation in TMS</b></p>
        <p>
            <ul id="ul_bbn_txw_gtb">
                <li>Send all reference materials to your vendor, which may help linguist deliver
                    accurate translations. These may include corporate websites, previous
                    translations (not existing in your TM)., offline glossaries, etc.</li>
                <li>Inform your vendor about the need to use of TMs, TBs, Concordance and what to do
                    in case of conflicting matches (e.g. use the most recent one).</li>
                <li>Discuss with your vendor whether lingusts can use machine translation for
                    particular projects or not.</li>
                <li>Ask your vendors to use in-context preview if available for particular files to
                    check the translation in reality (not only in the text editor) and the length of
                    texts.</li>
                <li>Make sure the vendor understands the need to run automatic QA on a file in TMS
                    to check e.g. non-translated texts or invalid inline tags.</li>
                <li>Ensure your vendor generates the target file from TMS to check its layout after
                    translation (e.g. if there are no hidden texts or if the file is ready to be
                    sent to the final client). If there are layout issues, agree with the vendor who
                    should fix them (if the vendor, discuss an additional price).</li>
                <li>Ask your vendor to confirm all segments in the text editor so that the TM could
                    be updated automatically.</li>
                <li>Inform your vendor about the need to follow messages from TMS concerning its
                    potential unavailability for maintenance, which may affect their work and your
                    deadline.</li>
                <li>Discuss with your vendor how many licences they will need for their linguists.
                    Inform them that your TMS may be unavailable at certain times due to the
                    exceeding of the number of concurrent users (if applicable).</li>
            </ul>
        </p>
        <p>
            <note id="note_tvm_v2x_gtb">It is a good practice to prepare a checklist for your
                vendors, outlining aspects not covered by the Cooperation Agreement to be used. It
                may list some or all of the above issues relevant for dealing with your projects in
                the TMS.</note>
        </p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
