<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="connectors">
    <title>Connectors</title>
    <shortdesc>Learn how to gain more control over your content by integrating content management
        systems and translation management systems via a connector.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p><b>What is a TMS connector?</b></p>
        <p>A TMS connector makes it possible to transfer content from your content management system
            (CMS) to the TMS easily using a set of protocols. There, it can be translated, whether
            by machine translation, professional translators, or both. Afterwards, the connector can
            upload the translated files back into the CMS so you can easily access them. In fact,
            any organization that works with high volumes of content in multiple languages could
            benefit from a TMS connector. For example, a company with a multilingual website and a
            blog that requires frequent updates can benefit from a TMS connector that connects their
            website CMS to their LSP’s TMS.</p>
        <p>The integrations between systems are made possible by a layer of software (a connector)
            based on the RESTFUL API principles of push and pull. Depending on the types of systems,
            these integrations can be either lightweight, which involves very little set-up, or more
            intricate middleware type configurations.</p>
        <p>There are many different connector types depending on what they are used for:<ul
                id="ul_t2g_1gq_2tb">
                <li>websites, blogs, and online content (e.g. Wordpress)</li>
                <li>e-commerce</li>
                <li>customer relationship management (CRM) and customer service</li>
                <li>marketing content and marketing automation</li>
                <li>code repositories (e.g. GitHub)</li>
                <li>cloud service solutions</li>
            </ul></p>
        <p><b>What are the benefits of using them?</b></p>
        <p>The connectors save time, reduce file management costs, cut down turnaround times and
            make localization simple. You also have more control over your content and can reduce
            human errors since the whole process is automatic.</p>
        <p><b>XTM example</b></p>
        <p>XTM offers you a possibility of using <xref href="https://xtm.cloud/connectors/"
                format="html" scope="external">different connectors</xref> that have already been
            established for and tested by other companies. However, you can also contact the
            development team for an offer of a custom-made integration with the system that is not
            on the above list. It can be pricey, though, and may also require some work from your IT
            team so be prepared with some additional financial and human resources.</p>
        <p>For a more comprehensive reference to TMS integrations, you can visit <xref
                href="https://www.nimdzi.com/integration-map/" format="html" scope="external"
                >Nimdzi</xref>.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
