<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="preparing_for_launch">
    <title>Preparing for go-live</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <taskbody>
        <prereq id="prereq_y1b_gwp_2tb">You may start this stage once you have received an approval
            to buy a TMS from your management.</prereq>
        <context>
            <p/>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Start the sales process with TMS provider (either through your purchasing
                    department or on your own):</cmd>
                <substeps id="substeps_i24_3wp_2tb">
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Ask for all necessary agreements (subscription agreement,
                                <abbreviated-form keyref="g_nda"/>, <abbreviated-form keyref="g_sla"
                            />, <abbreviated-form keyref="g_dpa"/> if applicable).</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Consult these documents with your legal department. Allocate some time
                            for this part because the negotiation process is usually a lengthy
                            one.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Request an offer to be presented to the management for final approval
                            (containing all the terms and conditions of purchase).</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Arrange for a TMS to be installed on-premises or on your instance in
                            the cloud.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Train your team, translation vendors and other internal customers that need to
                    work with it. You need some time to implement it and learn how to use it.</cmd>
                <substeps id="substeps_z44_pwp_2tb">
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Prepare internal documentation for your new TMS to present its main
                            features and benefits of using it.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Manage the whole onboarding process by delivering training to new users
                            (project managers, reviewers, translators).</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Draft relevant documentation (e.g. checklist for translation vendors,
                            guide on how to review documents for in-house reviewers).</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Set yourself as the first point of contact for all TMS-related issues
                            (user access rights, technical support).</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Carry out an internal marketing campaign for your refreshed translation
                            process with your TMS as the key tool. Advertise it e.g. in the
                            intranet.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd>Start looking for new partners if not all of your translation vendors
                            wish to continue cooperation with you with the use of the new TMS.</cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Collect all your <xref href="../glossary/g_translation_memory.dita">TMs</xref>
                    and <xref href="../glossary/g_termbase.dita">TBs</xref> (if any) from your
                    previous vendors and migrate them to the TMS. Create workflows, user accounts
                    with relevant <xref href="access_rights.dita">access rights and
                    roles</xref>.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Start working with your new TMS, initially only for some projects (the easiest
                    ones) and gradually move the whole translation process to it. Once you discover
                    all the TMS’s features, you will no longer imagine work outside it ;). You will
                    process even very complex projects in it.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Be prepared to report on TMS key metrics such as translation volume (number of
                    TM segments, translated words), language pairs, discounts on TM use, overall
                    external costs. It is a good idea to have an Excel report at hand with all
                    relevant data generated from TMS from time to time. Every management would like
                    to be updated on the metrics (KPIs) relating to the process.</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
        <postreq id="postreq_czw_kth_3tb">Once in a while, review your decision:<ul
                id="ul_dwk_nth_3tb">
                <li>Check if the TMS meets your business needs: are there more advantages than
                    disadvantages from using it? Are all of your company’s requirements met?</li>
                <li>Continue taking part in webinars to be up-to-date with your TMS upgrades.</li>
                <li>Check what is available in the market: has anything new appeared or changed in
                    the TMS offer?</li>
                <li>Ask yourself a question if you are satisfied with cooperation with this TMS
                    provider (e.g. as regards IT support, your customer success manager).</li>
                <li>Conduct a satisfaction survey among your vendors and/or your internal clients
                    working in this TMS. Analyze its results and present it in a form of an
                    executive report for your management.</li>
            </ul></postreq>
    </taskbody>
</task>
